5/24 Discussions - Algorithms and Data Structures

Find 2 HackerRank Algorithms under the Problem Solving skill area (Algorithm or Data Structure)

Medium Algorithm link:
https://www.hackerrank.com/challenges/climbing-the-leaderboard/problem

What is the Algorithm asking:

Alice is playing an arcade game and wants to climb to the top of the leaderboard. The game uses Dense Ranking, so its leaderboard works like this:
The player with the highest score is ranked number 1 on the leaderboard.
Players who have equal scores receive the same ranking number, and the next player(s) receive the immediately following ranking number.
In this problem, we need to track her ranking as she plays.

Inputs:

The number of players on the leaderboard which is integer 'n'
The next line contains an array of space-separated integers scores[i], the leaderboard scores in decreasing order.
The next line contains an integer,'m', denoting the number games Alice plays.
The last line contains  space-separated integers in the form of an array, which is Alice’s game scores.

For example Input:
7
100 100 50 40 40 20 10
4
5 25 50 120

Outputs:

The output is to determine Alice's rank  as she progresses up the leaderboard.
For example, the four players on the leaderboard have high scores of 100, 90, 90, and 80. Those players will have ranks 1, 2, 2, and 3, respectively. If Alice's scores are 70, 80  and 105, her rankings after each game are 4th, 3r and 1st.

Output for the above example should be :
6 4 2 1

The problem in your own words:

The problem is about comparing the players scores with Alice scores and keep track of the rank as she progresses up the leaderboard.


Hard Algorithm link:
https://www.hackerrank.com/challenges/maximum-subarray-sum/problem

What is the Algorithm asking:

Given an n-element array of integers, a, and an integer, m, determine the maximum value of the sum of any of its subarrays modulo m.

Inputs:

The first line contains an integer q, the number of queries to perform.
The next  q pairs of lines are as follows:
The first line contains two space-separated integers n and m, the length of a and the modulo divisor.
The second line contains n space-separated integers a[i].

Sample Input

1
5 7
3 3 9 9 5

Outputs:

For each query, print the maximum value of subarray sum % m on a new line.

Output for the above sample input is 6

The problem in your own words:

The problem is about finding the sum of an array which is the sum of its elements and determine the maximum value of the sum of any of its subarrays modulo m.

Come up with the definition for the following terms and consider a real life example of the concept.

Algorithm

An algorithm is a list of step-by-step instructions used in solving problems or performing tasks. One of the examples of an algorithm is a cooking recipe which is a list of instructions used to perform a task! For example, if you were to follow the algorithm to create brownies from a box mix, you would follow the three to five step process written on the back of the box.

One of the attributes of an algorithm is that since it is a list of instructions, there is some step-by-step process that occurs in order. Very often, the order that the steps are given in can make a big difference! Suppose we were to reorder the steps of the recipe on the back of the brownie box and told somebody to put the brownies in the oven for 22 minutes before we told them to preheat the oven. That would be silly! That is why the order of the steps is very important.

Data Structure:

A data structure refers to methods for organizing and storing data. Some of the data structure types include the array, the file, the record, the table, the tree, and so on. Any data structure is designed to organize data to suit a specific purpose so that it can be accessed and worked with in appropriate ways.
Example for a queue data structure is a line in a store where the first customer in the line is served first. That is First In First Out.
Example for a Hashtable data structure can be a dictionary that allows you to look up definitions (values) by keys (words sorted in alphabetical order).

Function:

A function is a group of statements that together perform a task. A function declaration tells the compiler about a function's name, return type, and parameters.

The applications of functions are everywhere in “real life”. For example, driving car for a simple road trip. You can use a function to estimate how much fuel you’ll need, how long the trip will be, how much money you’ll need for gas and other expenses, when you might need to stop for a break, etc. You might want to choose between two alternative routes, one of which has more tolls and the other which has more mileage. You could use functions to compare the two routes.

Method:

In object-oriented programming, a method is a programmed procedure that is defined as part of a class and included in any object of that class. A class can have more than one method. A method in an object can only have access to the data known to that object, which ensures data integrity among the set of objects in an application. A method can be reused in multiple objects. Method Refers to the action that object can perform.

For example consider we have a Class of Cars under which has Santro Xing, Alto and WagonR represents individual objects. In this context each Car Object will have its own, Model,Year of Manufacture, Colour, Top Speed, Engine Power etc.,which form Properties of the Car class and the associated actions i.e., object functions like Start, Move, Stop form the Methods of Car class.
