Discussions- C#, Algorithm & Data Structures

Find 2 articles or podcasts:

Item 1 - C# or web scraping

URL: https://www.entrepreneur.com/article/296906

Analysis: The above link lead to an article named “Website Scraping Is an Easy Growth Hack You Should
Try”.

In this article the author explains what is Web scraping, which is a method of extracting data from a
website. He talks about its uses which includes building up businesses, to determine where the
competitors are setting their prices.

In few lines, there is an explanation of how big Companies like Bidder's Edge and eBay involved in
web scraping and were brought to court, but the court decided that screen scraping was Ok but some basic
tips to keep in mind include looking out for copyrights, not being in violation of privacy laws or terms
of use, and (like in the case above), doesn’t burden the host’s service.

The article also explain how actual scraping is done. For starters, one of the most common uses is
setting up a robot.txt file. These essentially tell a web crawler what to look for on a page. For example,
if a sneaker reseller get to know a new Jordan just released, he can then tell a robot.txt to go through
other stores (eBay, StockX, etc.) and pick out terms such as “Jordan,” “Air Jordan” and what not to
aggregate the price.

The article ends up giving some details about the future of web-scraping. The capabilities of using web
scraping in data mining could be endless. In fact, the growth of collecting big data has spawned how AI
can be used to assess the relationship between data points. And as most of us have heard, AI is changing
the way we look at marketing in a significant manner.


Item 2 - Algorithm / Data Structure

URL: https://www.theguardian.com/science/2013/jul/01/how-algorithms-rule-world-nsa

Analysis : The above link lead to an article named “How algorithms rule the world”.

This article explains in today’s world how the Algorithm plays a very important role in everybody’s daily
life. The use of algorithms in policing is one example of their increasing influence on our lives. From
dating websites and City trading floors, through to online retailing and internet searches, algorithms are
increasingly determining our collective futures. "Bank approvals, store cards, job matches and more all
run on similar principles," says Ball. "The algorithm is the god from the machine powering them all, for
good or ill."


Come up with the definition for the following terms
Data Structure
Algorithm
Computer Science
Logic

Data structure is a data organization and storage of units of data within larger data sets that enables
efficient access and modification.

Algorithm is a step by step method of solving a problem. It can be a simple process, such as adding two
numbers or complex, such as playing a compressed video file.

Computer Science is the study of both computer hardware and software designs, it has many branches like
programming, software engineering, computer graphics and artificial intelligence.

Logic is a proper reasonable way of thinking about or understanding something to perform a specified task.
Logic attempts to distinguish good reasoning from bad reasoning.